[Duplicate] Multi-Output Classification with Machine Learning (#5874)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: content/articles/multi-output-classification-with-machine-learning/index.md

- Understand [natural langauge processing](/engineering-education/nlp-based-detection-model-using-neattext-and-scikit-learn/)
- Know how to train models using [Scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/)
- Use [Google Colab notebook](https://research.google.com/) to run the Python code in this tutorial.

### Netflix dataset
We will use the Netflix dataset to build our model. The image below will show how our dataset is structured.

![Dataset image](/engineering-education/multi-output-classification-with-machine-learning/dataset-image.png)

From the image above, our dataset has four columns: `title`, `description`, `type`, and `rating`. The `title` column will be the input column while type` and `rating` will be the output column. We now need to load this dataset on our machine.

To download this Netflix dataset, click [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1524vMr5iCGEEJmPx2n2-TAl8EicKuxcg/view?usp=sharing)

### Loading the dataset
There are various exploratory data analysis (EDA) packages that will load our dataset. Let's import them using the following code:

```python
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
```

> We will use Pandas to load the dataset. Numpy will be used to perform computational operations on our dataset. It also works well with arrays.

Reviewer: Consider rewriting the sentence, "Numpy will be used..." in active voice. For instance, "We will use Numpy...."

#### `type` column
```python 
df['type'].value_counts()
```
The output is shown below:

```bash
Movie      4788
TV Show    2143
Name: type, dtype: int64
```
In the output above, we have 4788 `movie` data samples and 2143 `TV Show` data samples.

#### `rating` column
To get the value count of the `rating` column, use the following code:

```python
df['rating'].value_counts()
```
The output is shown below:

```bash
TV-MA    2863
TV-14    1931
TV-PG     806
R         665
PG-13     386
TV-Y      280
Name: rating, dtype: int64
```
The output above shows the distribution of all the ratings in our dataset. We have seven ratings: `TV-MA`, `TV-14`, `TV-PG`, `R`, `PG-13` and `TV-Y`.

Before we start building our model, we also need to clean our dataset. Dataset cleaning involves correctly formatting our dataset.

### Text cleaning
For text cleaning, we will convert all our text data into lower case and also remove stop words. We will use the NeatText Python package to perform this process. We will install Neattext using the following code:

```bash
! pip install neattext
```

> Let's import the Neattext functions that will be used for text cleaning.

Reviewer: This is another case of using passive voice. Instead of using "will be used...", consider replacing that with "...will use"

```python
import neattext.functions as nfx
```
To convert the text data into lower case, run this command:

```python
df['title'] = df['title'].nfx.lower()
```

Let's remove stopwords from our test dataset. Stopwords are the most common words that are used in any language. They have little weight on the model during training. 
Removing stopwords removes words with little weight. This allows the model to focus on the words that will have a greater impact during training. 
To remove the stopwords, run this code:

```python
df['title'] = df['title'].apply(nfx.remove_stopwords)
```
Now that we have removed stop words and correctly formatted our dataset, let's import all the packages that will be building the model.

### Importing important packages
To import all the important packages, run this code:

```python
from sklearn.linear_model import LogisticRegression
from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import CountVectorizer
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from sklearn.metrics import accuracy_score
from sklearn.multioutput import MultiOutputClassifier
```
Let's explain these packages that we have imported.

**LogisticRegression**

> This is the algorithm used to train the model. 

Reviewer: Consider using "It" instead of "This"

**CountVectorizer**
Since we are dealing with text, we need to convert the input text into vectors of numbers. Machine learning models do not understand the raw text. The converted vectors of numbers are the representation of the original text. `CountVectorizer` is the most common Python package used to perform this process.

For further reading on CountVectorizer and how they convert raw text into vectors of numbers, click [here](https://towardsdatascience.com/basics-of-countvectorizer-e26677900f9c)

**train_test_split**
This is the Python package that is used for dataset splitting. In machine learning, it's essential to split a dataset into two sets. One set is to be used for training and another one for testing.

**accuracy_score**

> This is used to calculate the accuracy score of the model after training.

Reviewer: Consider using "It" instead of "This" in this section

**MultiOutputClassifier**
Since we are dealing with a multi-output classification problem, we need a more specific algorithm.
`MultiOutputClassifier` is the most common [Scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/) algorithm used to build this model.

We now need to specify features and labels for our model.

### Adding features and labels
Features and labels are essential in any machine learning label. Features represent all the columns used by the model as inputs during training. Labels represent the output or target columns, this is what the model wants to predict. We add the using the following code:

```python
Xfeatures = df['title']
ylabels = df[['type','rating']]
```
From this code, our feature is the `title`, this is the input for our model. The labels are `type` and `rating`, these are the output for our model. We have two labels because we are dealing with a multi-output classification problem.

The next step is to split our dataset using the `train_test_split` method.

### Dataset splitting
To split the dataset into two, use this code:

```python
x_train,x_test,y_train,y_test = train_test_split(Xfeatures,ylabels,test_size=0.3,random_state=7)
```

> In the code above, we use a `test_size=0.3`. This will split our dataset so that `70%` of the dataset is used for training and `30%` will be used for testing. We have split our dataset, we are now ready to build the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the code above, we use a `test_size=0.3`. It will split our dataset so that `70%` of the dataset is used for training and `30%` for testing. We have split our dataset, and we are now ready to build the model.
```

To build this model we will use the machine learning pipeline package to speed up the process of building our model. It will speed up the process by automating all the processes involved in building the model.

The machine learning pipeline will automate the process of `CountVectorizer`. It will also automate the process of model training using `LogisticRegression` and `MultiOutputClassifier` algorithms.

> To implement this pipeline process, we will import the `Pipeline` package. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will import the `Pipeline` package to implement this pipeline process. 
```

### Importing pipeline
To import the `Pipeline`, use the following code:

```python
from sklearn.pipeline import Pipeline
```
To build the model using this `Pipeline` package, we need to initialize all the processes involved in building our model. In our case, we have two processes. 

The first process is `CountVectorizer`: converting raw text to vectors of numbers. The second process uses the `LogisticRegression` and `MultiOutputClassifier` algorithms in training the model. 

Let's initialize these two processes.

#### Initializing the processes
These processes are usually in sequential steps. The output of one process is used as the input of the next process as shown in the code below.

```python
pipe_lr = Pipeline(steps=[('cv',CountVectorizer()),
                          ('lr_multi',MultiOutputClassifier(LogisticRegression()))])
```
Now that we have initialized the processes, let's fit the pipeline into our training dataset. This will enable the model to learn from the dataset. To fit the pipeline, use the following code: 

```python
pipe_lr.fit(x_train,y_train)
```

> During this stage, the two processes will run automatically and produce a trained model as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The two processes will run automatically during this stage and produce a trained model, as shown below:
```

![Training process](/engineering-education/multi-output-classification-with-machine-learning/training-process.png)

We can calculate the accuracy score of this model using the following code:

```python
pipe_lr.score(x_test,y_test)
```
The accuracy score is shown below:

```bash
0.8969221004536385
```

> The accuracy score for our model is `0.896922`, this represents `89.6922%`. This is a good accuracy score, we can use this trained model to make predictions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The accuracy score for our model is `0.896922`. This represents `89.6922%`. It is a good accuracy score, and we can use this trained model to make predictions.
```

### Making predictions

> To make a prediction we need to extract a sample input text. To extract a sample text run this code:

Reviewer: Please add commas in these two sentences where necessary

```python
print(x_test.iloc[0])
```
The output of this sample text is `the midnight sky`. Let's save this text in a variable.

```python
pred1 = x_test.iloc[0]
```

> The model will use this input text to make a prediction. The model should be able to classify the input text as either a `Movie` or `TV Show` and also provide its rating.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The model will use this input text to make a prediction. The model should classify the input text as either a `Movie` or `TV Show` and provide its rating.
```

To make this prediction, run this code:

```python
pipe_lr.predict([pred1])
```
The prediction output is shown below:

```bash
array([['Movie', 'TV-MA']], dtype=object)
```
From the output above, the model has produced two prediction outputs. It has classified the input text as a `Movie` with a rating of `TV-MA`. Therefore, we have successfully built our multi-output text classification model.

We can also calculate the prediction probability of these outputs. This enables us to know why the model made these predictions.

### Prediction probabilities
To calculate the probabilities, use the following code:

```python
print(pipe_lr.classes_)
pipe_lr.predict_proba([pred1])
```
The output is shown below:

```bash
[array(['Movie', 'TV Show'], dtype=object), array(['PG-13', 'R', 'TV-14', 'TV-MA', 'TV-PG', 'TV-Y'], dtype=object)]
[array([[0.74445483, 0.25554517]]),
 array([[0.12310188, 0.07038494, 0.21476461, 0.46916205, 0.10270243,
         0.01988409]])]
```

> From the output above we can see `Movie` had a higher probability of `0.74445483` compared to `0.25554517` of `TV Show`. That's why the model classified the text as `Movie`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the output above, we can see `Movie` had a higher probability of `0.74445483` than `0.25554517` of `TV Show`. That's why the model classified the text as `Movie`.
```

In the next prediction, `TV-MA` has a higher probability of `0.46916205` compared to the other rating. That's why the model classified the rating as `TV-MA`. Using these prediction probabilities, we can see that our model was able to make the right predictions.

### Conclusion

> In this tutorial, we have learned how to build a multi-output classification model. We started by cleaning our Netflix dataset to ensure that is correctly formatted before we can use it. 
> 
> We then used the clean dataset to build the multi-output text classification model. We used both the `LogisticRegression` and `MultiOutputClassifier` algorithms in training the model. We implemented all the machine learning processes using the pipeline package, it sped up the process and made our work easier. 
> 
> Finally, we used our model to make predictions, the trained model was able to make the right predictions. To get the multi-output classification model we have built in this tutorial, click [here](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/11-SVWysrpK0SGp7d7EYnuArlYeLsv1K0?usp=sharing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we have learned how to build a multi-output classification model. We started by cleaning our Netflix dataset to ensure that it was correctly formatted before using it. 

We then used the clean dataset to build the multi-output text classification model. We used the `LogisticRegression` and `MultiOutputClassifier` algorithms to train the model. We implemented all the machine learning processes using the pipeline package. It sped up the process and made our work easier. 

Finally, we used our model to make predictions, and the trained model could make the right predictions. To get the multi-output classification model we have built in this tutorial, click [here](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/11-SVWysrpK0SGp7d7EYnuArlYeLsv1K0?usp=sharing).
```

```
To convert the text data into lower case, run this command:

```python
df['title'] = df['title'].nfx.lower()
```

Let's remove stopwords from our test dataset. Stopwords are the most common words that are used in any language. They have little weight on the model during training. 
Removing stopwords removes words with little weight. This allows the model to focus on the words that will have a greater impact during training. 
To remove the stopwords, run this code:

```python
df['title'] = df['title'].apply(nfx.remove_stopwords)
```
Now that we have removed stop words and correctly formatted our dataset, let's import all the packages that will be building the model.

### Importing important packages

To import all the important packages, run this code:

```python
from sklearn.linear_model import LogisticRegression
from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import CountVectorizer
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from sklearn.metrics import accuracy_score
from sklearn.multioutput import MultiOutputClassifier
```
Let's explain these packages that we have imported.

**LogisticRegression**
This is the algorithm used to train the model. 

**CountVectorizer**

> Since we are dealing with text, we need to convert the input text into vectors of numbers. Machine learning models do not understand the raw text. The converted vectors of numbers are the representation of the original text. CountVectorizer is the most common Python package that is used to perform this process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we are dealing with text, we need to convert the input text into vectors of numbers. Machine learning models do not understand the raw text. The converted vectors of numbers are the representation of the original text. `CountVectorizer` is the most common Python package used to perform this process.
```

For further reading on CountVectorizer and how they convert raw text into vectors of numbers, click [here](https://towardsdatascience.com/basics-of-countvectorizer-e26677900f9c)

**train_test_split**
This is the Python package that is used for dataset splitting. In machine learning, it's essential to split a dataset into two sets. One set is to be used for training and another one for testing.

**accuracy_score**
This is used to calculate the accuracy score of the model after training.

**MultiOutputClassifier**
Since we are dealing with a multi-output classification problem, we need a more specific algorithm.

>  `MultiOutputClassifier` is the most common [Scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/) algorithm that is used to build this model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`MultiOutputClassifier` is the most common [Scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/) algorithm used to build this model.
```

The next step is to split our dataset using the `train_test_split` method.

### Dataset splitting

To split the dataset into two, use this code:

```python
x_train,x_test,y_train,y_test = train_test_split(Xfeatures,ylabels,test_size=0.3,random_state=7)
```
In the code above, we use a `test_size=0.3`. This will split our dataset so that `70%` of the dataset is used for training and `30%` will be used for testing. We have split our dataset, we are now ready to build the model.

To build this model we will use the machine learning pipeline package to speed up the process of building our model. It will speed up the process by automating all the processes involved in building the model.

The machine learning pipeline will automate the process of `CountVectorizer`. It will also automate the process of model training using `LogisticRegression` and `MultiOutputClassifier` algorithms.

To implement this pipeline process, we will import the `Pipeline` package. 

### Importing pipeline

> 

Reviewer: Consider removing all the white spaces after the heading. It's unnecessary as spaces are added automatically
